blog: announce 24.05 release (#1453)
NixOS/nixos-homepage: src/content/blog/announcements/2024-05-31_nixos-24.05.md

NixOS is already known as [the most up to date distribution](https://repology.org/repositories/statistics/newest) while also being [the distribution with the most packages](https://repology.org/repositories/statistics/total). This release saw **17775 new** packages and **16244 updated** packages in Nixpkgs. We also **removed 9393** packages in an effort to keep the package set maintainable and secure.
In addition to packages the NixOS distribution also features modules and tests that make it what it is. This release brought **144 new** modules and **removed 23**. In that process we **added 1983** options and **removed 304**.

### GNOME 46

GNOME has been updated to version 46 "Kathmandu", which introduces an enhanced Files app, support for OneDrive in Online Accounts, and more changes. Refer to the [release notes](https://release.gnome.org/46/) for more details.

### Plasma 6

Plasma has been updated to version 6.0, which introduces new defaults, refreshed Breeze, and more changes. Refer to the [release notes](https://kde.org/announcements/megarelease/6/) for more details.

### Special Thanks

> We want to personally thank [Jacek Generowicz](https://github.com/jacg) for editorializing the release notes, [Vladimír Čunát](https://github.com/vcunat) for his tireless effort in managing jobsets, staging cycles and build infrastructure, [Cole Helbling](https://github.com/cole-h) for his epic effort in bisecting kernel issues with ARM64 for our remote builders, and [Graham Christensen](https://github.com/grahamc) for dutifully tending to our build infrastructure.

Reviewer: Does Graham still manage the NixOS build infrastructure? I think Hexa is doing now a fair part there. I don't know who else is involved.

> 

Reviewer: - [Lennart Mühlenmeier](https://github.com/riotbib) For doing the artwork.

### GNOME 46

GNOME has been updated to version 46 "Kathmandu", which introduces an enhanced Files app, support for OneDrive in Online Accounts, and more changes. Refer to the [release notes](https://release.gnome.org/46/) for more details.

### Plasma 6

Plasma has been updated to version 6.0, which introduces new defaults, refreshed Breeze, and more changes. Refer to the [release notes](https://kde.org/announcements/megarelease/6/) for more details.

### Special Thanks

We want to personally thank [Jacek Generowicz](https://github.com/jacg) for editorializing the release notes, [Lennart Mühlenmeier](https://github.com/riotbib) for doing the release logo, [Vladimír Čunát](https://github.com/vcunat) for his tireless effort in managing jobsets and staging cycles, [Martin Weinelt](https://github.com/mweinelt) for dutifully tending to our build infrastructure, and [Cole Helbling](https://github.com/cole-h) for his epic effort in bisecting kernel issues with ARM64 for our remote builders.

### Reflections and Closing

> I am very thankful for this opportunity to learn about and participate in the release process. It has been an awesome experience to work with everyone on this release, and I want to say thank you to everyone in this community that built NixOS and helped made this release better.

Reviewer 2: Who is the "I" here?

Author: Changed to "we".

In addition to packages the NixOS distribution also features modules and tests that make it what it is. This release brought **145 new** modules and **removed 23**. In that process we **added 1983** options and **removed 304**.

### GNOME 46

GNOME has been updated to version 46 "Kathmandu", which introduces an enhanced Files app, support for OneDrive in Online Accounts, and more changes. Refer to the [release notes](https://release.gnome.org/46/) for more details.

### Plasma 6

Plasma has been updated to version 6.0, which introduces new defaults, refreshed Breeze, and more changes. Refer to the [release notes](https://kde.org/announcements/megarelease/6/) for more details.

### Linux Kernel 6.6

The default kernel package has been updated from 6.1 to 6.6. All supported kernels since 4.19 remain available.

### Special Thanks

> We want to personally thank [Jacek Generowicz](https://github.com/jacg) for editorializing the release notes, [Lennart Mühlenmeier](https://github.com/riotbib) for doing the release logo, [Vladimír Čunát](https://github.com/vcunat) for his tireless effort in managing jobsets and staging cycles, [Martin Weinelt](https://github.com/mweinelt) for dutifully tending to our build infrastructure, and [Cole Helbling](https://github.com/cole-h) for his epic effort in bisecting kernel issues with ARM64 for our remote builders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to personally thank [Jacek Generowicz](https://github.com/jacg) for editorializing the release notes, [Lennart Mühlenmeier](https://github.com/riotbib) for doing the release logo, [Vladimír Čunát](https://github.com/vcunat) for his tireless effort in managing jobsets and staging cycles, [Martin Weinelt](https://github.com/mweinelt) for dutifully tending to our build infrastructure, and [Cole Helbling](https://github.com/cole-h) for his effort on keeping ofBorg running.
```
